feat(http): Rewrite the UA detection doc (#38738)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/guides/browser_detection_using_the_user_agent/index.md

---
title: Browser detection using the user agent string (UA sniffing)
short-title: Browser detection using the UA string
slug: Web/HTTP/Guides/Browser_detection_using_the_user_agent
page-type: guide
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

Along with every request to a server, browsers include a {{HTTPHeader("User-Agent")}} {{Glossary("HTTP")}} header with a value called a {{glossary("user agent")}} (UA) string.
This string is intended to identify the browser, its version number, and its host operating system.

```http
User-Agent: <product> / <product-version> <comment>
```

You can also access this via the [`navigator.userAgent`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator/userAgent) property in JavaScript:

```js
console.log(window.navigator.userAgent);
// Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:138.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/138.0
```

> It may be tempting for developers to parse the UA string (sometimes called "UA sniffing") and then change how their sites behave based on the values in the UA string, but doing this reliably and with confidence that it's correct is very hard to do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it may be tempting to parse the UA string (sometimes called "UA sniffing") and change how a site behaves based on the values in the UA string, this is very hard to do reliably.
```

> This document describes common pitfalls to browser detection, the recommended alternatives, and provides some hints for UA detection if it's absolutely necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes common pitfalls of using the UA string for browser detection and the recommended alternatives.
At the end we provide some hints for UA detection using the string, but only if it's absolutely necessary!
```

> ## Problems with browser detection

Reviewer: Are we talking about browser detection, or just using the UA string here? The example uses UA string to detect chrome but you could do the same thing with client hints and have exactly the same problem.

My assumption is that we never want to do browser detection and the heading is right - client hints are just a way of making it simpler if you have to.

Upshot, is this the right title? If so we need to be a bit more generic. It doesn't fit into the structure you're after, but a correct title for this right now is "Why feature detection is better than browser detection"

Reviewer: Assuming you really really do want to talk about browser ua string parsing, the biggest problem is that browsers lie - some pretend to be other browsers, some include information for multiple browsers. This is one reason why the client hints are good - they don't lie, and they only provide one bit of information.

Author: These are good points. I think we can do:

```
## Why feature detection is better than browser detection
```

Then mention the points here that you can detect a browser, some ways are more reliable than others, but you're probably really after feature detection

Author: I think I got it in b3dbec724bf5d933ba36e5aebda203480a1d33be

> The Web is meant to be accessible to everyone, regardless of the browser or device they're using.

Reviewer: This expression isn't relevant to the point in any way - I hate it so much.

Author: Removed in b3dbec724bf5d933ba36e5aebda203480a1d33be

Reviewer: Thank you.

To illustrate why changing site functionality based on UA strings introduces complexity and possible bugs, consider the following example.
An application wants to make use of a `splitUpString()` function in JavaScript using [lookbehind assertion](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Lookbehind_assertion) (`?<=…`):

```js example-bad
let splitUpString;

if (navigator.userAgent.includes("Chrome")) {
  const camelCaseExpression = new RegExp("(?<=[A-Z])");
  splitUpString = (str) => String(str).split(camelCaseExpression);
} else {
  // This fallback is inefficient, but it works
  splitUpString = (str) =>
    String(str)
      .split(/(.*?[A-Z])/)
      .filter(Boolean);
}
console.log(splitUpString("fooBar")); // ["fooB", "ar"]
console.log(splitUpString("jQWhy")); // ["jQ", "W", "hy"]
```

> This code mistakenly makes several assumptions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code makes several assumptions that may not be true, and which can break this code if it is run on the wrong browser:
```

1. All user agent strings that include the substring `Chrome` indicate a Chrome browser.
2. The lookbehind feature is always available if the browser is Chrome.
   In reality, the browser might be an older version of Chrome before support was added, or it could be a later version of Chrome that removes it.
3. Most importantly, it assumes no other browsers support the feature, when it could be added to any other browser at any time.
   All non-matching browsers will be stuck using an inefficient fallback.

> ## How to avoid browser detection

Reviewer: Yuck. Title doesn't match content.. You'll have to work around some of the text, but try something like:

```suggestion
## Invalid reason to use browser sniffing
```

- **Do you want to provide different HTML depending on which browser is being used?**
  - : This is usually a bad idea, but there are rare cases where this is necessary.
    Can you prevent it by adding non-semantic {{ HTMLElement("div") }} or {{ HTMLElement("span") }} elements?
    The tradeoff of successfully using UA detection for this purpose is worth reworking your HTML.
    Consider if there's actually a problem with your design: can you use progressive enhancement or fluid layouts to help remove the need to do this?
- **Are you trying to check for the existence of a specific feature?**
  - : Your site needs to use a specific feature that some browsers don't yet support, and you want users with incompatible browsers to be served an older website with fewer features you know will work.
    This is the worst reason to use UA detection because all browsers will likely catch up, eventually.
    In addition, it's not practical to test each browser for different features in this way.

The following sections describe common alternatives to browser detection.

> ### Feature detection

Reviewer: Given https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/38738/files#r2006763298, then put all these under "Alternatives to browser sniffing"

You can do this by checking for a `geolocation` property available on the global {{domxref("Navigator")}} object.

```js
if ("geolocation" in navigator) {
  navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(function (position) {
    // show the location on a map, such as the Google Maps API
  });
} else {
  // Show a static map instead
}
```

You can do this for many features, like if PDF files can be viewed inline, if the {{domxref("VirtualKeyboard_API", "The VirtualKeyboard API", "", "nocode")}} is supported, and so on:

```js
if ("application/pdf" in navigator.mimeTypes) {
  // browser supports inline viewing of PDF files.
}
if ("virtualKeyboard" in navigator) {
  // browser supports the Virtual Keyboard API
}
```

For styles, you can also do feature detection in CSS using the [`@supports`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@supports) at-rule, combined with the `not` keyword if you want to check for the absence of a feature.
See [Using feature queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_conditional_rules/Using_feature_queries) for information on using this in CSS.

```css
@supports (display: grid) {
  .box {

>     display: grid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    display: grid;
```

    gap: 2rem;
  }
}

@supports not (property: value) {
  /* CSS rules for fallback */
}
```

In rare cases where behavior differs between browsers for a feature, you should test how browsers implement the API and determine how to use it based on that.
To learn more, see the [Implementing feature detection](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Testing/Feature_detection) documentation.

### Client Hints

> For Blink-based browsers (Chromium, Edge, Brave, Vivaldi, etc.), an alternative is [User agent client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Client_hints#user_agent_client_hints).

Reviewer: Possibly a note here somewhere that even though the information can be relied upon, progressive enhancement and feature checking are still better approaches that can be used with CH info.

Author: Done in b3dbec724bf5d933ba36e5aebda203480a1d33be

---
title: Browser detection using the user agent string (UA sniffing)
short-title: Browser detection using the UA string
slug: Web/HTTP/Guides/Browser_detection_using_the_user_agent
page-type: guide
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

Along with every request to a server, browsers include a {{HTTPHeader("User-Agent")}} {{Glossary("HTTP")}} header with a value called a {{glossary("user agent")}} (UA) string.
This string is intended to identify the browser, its version number, and its host operating system.

```http
User-Agent: <product> / <product-version> <comment>
```

You can also access this string via the [`navigator.userAgent`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator/userAgent) property in JavaScript:

```js
console.log(window.navigator.userAgent);
// Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:138.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/138.0
```

> It may be tempting to parse the UA string (sometimes called "UA sniffing") and change how your site behaves based on the values in the UA string, but this is very hard to do reliably, and is usually a cause of bugs.

Reviewer: Maybe

```suggestion
It may be tempting to parse the UA string (sometimes called "UA sniffing") and change how your site behaves based on the values in the UA string, but this is very hard to do reliably, and is often a cause of bugs.
```

This document describes common pitfalls of using the UA string for browser detection and the recommended alternatives.
At the end we provide some hints for UA detection using the string, but you should do this only if it's absolutely necessary!

## Why feature detection is better than browser detection

To illustrate why trying to adapt site functionality per browser introduces complexity and possible bugs, consider the following example.
An application wants to make use of a `splitUpString()` function in JavaScript using [lookbehind assertion](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Lookbehind_assertion) (`?<=…`):

```js example-bad
let splitUpString;

if (navigator.userAgent.includes("Chrome")) {
  const camelCaseExpression = new RegExp("(?<=[A-Z])");
  splitUpString = (str) => String(str).split(camelCaseExpression);
} else {
  // This fallback is inefficient, but it works
  splitUpString = (str) =>
    String(str)
      .split(/(.*?[A-Z])/)
      .filter(Boolean);
}
console.log(splitUpString("fooBar")); // ["fooB", "ar"]
console.log(splitUpString("jQWhy")); // ["jQ", "W", "hy"]
```

> This code makes several assumptions that may be wrong, and which will break the code if the wrong browser runs it:

Reviewer: Maybe

```suggestion
This code makes several assumptions that may be wrong, and which will break the code if it is run on the wrong browser or browser version:
```

> 1. All user agent strings that include the substring `Chrome` indicate a Chrome browser.

Reviewer: Perhaps an "in fact". This is generic, but you might be specific about what fakers there are.
```suggestion
1. All user agent strings that include the substring `Chrome` indicate a Chrome browser.
   In practice browsers and user agents routinely include `Chrome` and other browser information in their UA strings.
```

2. The lookbehind feature is always available if the browser is Chrome.
   In reality, the browser might be an older version of Chrome before support was added, or it could be a later version of Chrome that removes it.
3. Most importantly, it assumes no other browsers support the feature, when it could be added to any other browser at any time.
   All non-matching browsers will be stuck using an inefficient fallback.

It's important to note that these problems will exist regardless of the browser detection method; UA sniffing, client hints, the presence, absence or contents of other HTTP headers, and so on.
Knowing what browser is used is irrelevant, what we're actually looking for in this case is feature detection, which is described in more detail below.

## Invalid reasons to use browser detection

There are ways to develop your website so that it's progressively enhanced based on the availability of features in a client rather than targeting specific browsers.
For this reason, the first avenue to explore before starting to detect browsers via UA string is **how to avoid UA sniffing**, if possible.

> Try to identify why you want to do browser detection:

Author: Changed here: 451160b70c294dbd35b6c502275a9a4e764d044c

> - **Are you trying to work around a specific bug in a certain browser version?**

Reviewer: If you do the change in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/38738/files#r2009302883,  consider changing these from questions (only commenting on one).

```suggestion
- **I'm trying to work around a specific bug in a certain browser version**
```

Author: I'm thinking now it might be better to have them in this format:

```md
Invalid reasons to use browser detection
  
  Trying to work around a specific bug in a certain browser version
  
  Providing different HTML depending on which browser is being used
  
  Trying to check if a feature is supported in a visitor's browser
```

Author: edited here: 451160b70c294dbd35b6c502275a9a4e764d044c

Reviewer: Yes, looks great.

  - : This is usually a bad idea, but there are rare cases where this is necessary.
    Can you prevent it by adding non-semantic {{ HTMLElement("div") }} or {{ HTMLElement("span") }} elements?
    Consider if there's actually a problem with your design: can you use progressive enhancement or fluid layouts to help remove your need to do this?
    The effort in applying accurate UA detection compared to reworking your HTML should be a deciding factor.
- **Are you trying to check for the existence of a specific feature?**
  - : Your site needs to use a specific feature that some browsers don't yet support, and you want users with incompatible browsers to be served an older website with fewer features you know will work.
    This is the worst reason to use UA detection because all browsers will likely catch up, eventually.
    In addition, it's not practical to test each browser for different features in this way.

## Alternatives to UA sniffing

Aside from variants in how different browsers identify themselves, the biggest problem in browser detection is that clients can easily spoof indicators like UA strings or other HTTP headers.

> A browser can pretend to be another browser, or include information based on multiple browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For historical reasons, a browser will often pretend to be another browser, or include information based on multiple browsers.
```

> Aside from variants in how different browsers identify themselves, the biggest problem in browser detection is that clients can easily spoof indicators like UA strings or other HTTP headers.
> For historical reasons, a browser will often pretend to be another browser, or include information based on multiple browsers.
> 

Reviewer: This is a slightly odd entry to the section on alternatives. I think this can be copy-pasted above into the list of problems above https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/38738/files#r2009295929

```suggestion
```

Author: Should be better now: 451160b70c294dbd35b6c502275a9a4e764d044c

> The following sections describe alternatives to browser detection which are applicable to more situations than UA sniffing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe alternatives to browser detection that are applicable to more situations than UA sniffing.
```

### Feature detection

Feature detection is where you check to see if a specific feature is available to the client instead of figuring out which browser is rendering your page.
For cases where a feature is not supported, you use a fallback instead.
The following feature detection example checks if the client supports the {{domxref("Geolocation_API", "Geolocation API", "", "nocode")}}.
You can do this by checking for a `geolocation` property available on the global {{domxref("Navigator")}} object.

```js
if ("geolocation" in navigator) {
  navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(function (position) {
    // show the location on a map, such as the Google Maps API
  });
} else {
  // Show a static map instead
}
```

> You can do this for many features, like if PDF files can be viewed inline, if the {{domxref("VirtualKeyboard_API", "The VirtualKeyboard API", "", "nocode")}} is supported, and so on:

Reviewer: Bit clunky

```suggestion
You can do this for many features.
For example, you can determine whether PDF files can be viewed inline if the {{domxref("VirtualKeyboard_API", "VirtualKeyboard API", "", "nocode")}} is supported, and so on:
```

Let's assume the server sends this response to the client:

```http
Accept-CH: Sec-CH-UA-Mobile, Sec-CH-UA-Platform, Sec-CH-UA
```

This asks for the following headers from the client in subsequent requests:

- {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Mobile")}}: a boolean to indicate if the client is a mobile device.
- {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Platform")}}: the platform the client is operating on ("Windows", "Android", etc.).
- {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA")}}: the user-agent's branding and significant version information.

Assuming the client supports client hints, the UA client hints may appear in subsequent requests:

```http
GET /my/page HTTP/1.1
Host: example.site

Sec-CH-UA: " Not A;Brand";v="99", "Chromium";v="96", "Google Chrome";v="96"
Sec-CH-UA-Mobile: ?1
Sec-CH-UA-Platform: "Android"
```

To learn more about client hints, see [HTTP Client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Client_hints).
Be sure to check the [Browser Compatibility](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Accept-CH#browser_compatibility) details for more information before using this feature.

> ### Mobile device detection

Reviewer: This section is actually feature detection - I'd put it above the Client Hints section, and possibly even as a sub-heading of Feature detection.

Author: Good idea, moved under Feature detection: 451160b70c294dbd35b6c502275a9a4e764d044c

> A common misuse of UA sniffing is to detect if the client is a mobile device.

Reviewer: If you move the section, client hints in this suggestion would become a link

```suggestion
A common misuse of UA sniffing (and client hints) is to detect if the client is a mobile device.
```

Author: done in 451160b70c294dbd35b6c502275a9a4e764d044c

1. All user agent strings that include the substring `Chrome` indicate a Chrome browser.

   One of the biggest problems with browser detection based on UA strings is that browsers and user agents routinely pretend to be another browser, or include information based on multiple browsers.

2. The lookbehind feature is always available if the browser is Chrome.
   In reality, the browser might be an older version of Chrome before support was added, or it could be a later version of Chrome that removes it.
3. Most importantly, it assumes no other browsers support the feature, when it could be added to any other browser at any time.
   All non-matching browsers will be stuck using an inefficient fallback.

It's important to note that these problems will exist regardless of the browser detection method; UA sniffing, client hints, the presence, absence or contents of other HTTP headers, and so on.
Knowing what browser is used is irrelevant, what we're actually looking for in this case is feature detection, which is described in more detail below.

## Alternatives to UA sniffing

> Aside from variants in how different browsers identify themselves, clients can easily spoof indicators like UA strings, other HTTP headers, or include information based on multiple browsers.

Reviewer: We no longer need this. I'm going to remove so I can merge this.

```suggestion
```

## Why feature detection is better than browser detection

To illustrate why trying to adapt site functionality per browser introduces complexity and possible bugs, consider the following example.
An application wants to make use of a `splitUpString()` function in JavaScript using [lookbehind assertion](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Regular_expressions/Lookbehind_assertion) (`?<=…`):

```js example-bad
let splitUpString;

if (navigator.userAgent.includes("Chrome")) {
  const camelCaseExpression = new RegExp("(?<=[A-Z])");
  splitUpString = (str) => String(str).split(camelCaseExpression);
} else {
  // This fallback is inefficient, but it works
  splitUpString = (str) =>
    String(str)
      .split(/(.*?[A-Z])/)
      .filter(Boolean);
}
console.log(splitUpString("fooBar")); // ["fooB", "ar"]
console.log(splitUpString("jQWhy")); // ["jQ", "W", "hy"]
```

This code makes several assumptions that may be wrong, and which will break the code if it is run on the wrong browser or browser version:

1. All user agent strings that include the substring `Chrome` indicate a Chrome browser.

>    One of the biggest problems with browser detection with UA strings is that browsers and user agents routinely pretend to be another browser, or include information based on multiple browsers.

Author: ```suggestion
   One of the biggest problems with browser detection based on UA strings is that browsers and user agents routinely pretend to be another browser, or include information based on multiple browsers.
```

For Blink-based browsers (Chromium, Edge, Brave, Vivaldi, etc.), an alternative is [User agent client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Client_hints#user_agent_client_hints).
In client hints, the server proactively requests device information from a client through HTTP headers or via [JavaScript API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/User-Agent_Client_Hints_API).

Client hints are better than UA sniffing for detecting Blink-based browsers in that they're not as commonly-spoofed, and they provide smaller, more reliable pieces of information that are easier to parse.

> Changing site functionality based on client hints is still a bad idea, and you should consider feature detection and progressive enhancement for your use case [as described above](#why_feature_detection_is_better_than_browser_detection).

Reviewer: Nothing wrong with this, but perhaps be even more direct.

```suggestion
Changing site functionality based on client hints is still a bad idea!
Where possible you should instead use feature detection and progressive enhancement [as described above](#why_feature_detection_is_better_than_browser_detection).
```
